[READY FOR REVIEW] Adding accessibility policy draft (accessibility.md) and practices (#3581)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: ACCESSIBILITY.md

# Accessibility Policy of The Turing Way Community

Within _The Turing Way_ community, we define accessibility practices as a set of community-wide, behavioral, social, and technical decisions that can be taken to ensure that all are welcome and are able to enter and participate in research, data-driven processes, communities and events despite any barriers for access.

While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to everyone, with specific attention given to ensuring proper access for groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation. Barriers may be anything related to, including, and extending beyond the following: 
- Age
- Disability
- Ethnicity and race
- Family
- Language (written and/or spoken)
- Geography
- Nationality
- Religion, faith and belief
- Sex and gender
- Sexual orientation
- Socioeconomic status
- Technical or disciplinary background

> 

Author: Adding something related to design here after discussing with @Preshh0 and @LizHareDogs about Design (#3930)

> 

Reviewer: @PatriLoto p@PatriLoto please feel free to edit my additions to the list on this pad if you can express these better than I did:
https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/ttw-accessibility-policy

> 

Author: Closing this I believe we have addressed this - thank you SO much @PatriLoto for your thoughtful comments. 🙏

In developing this policy, we aim to draw from the [access-centered framework](https://accesscenteredmovement.com/what-access-centered-means/) in describing access as a constant process that changes in each space with each individual. Therefore, while this policy outlines our commitment to access-centered practices within our community in a broad sense, we also document the specific practices we use within _The Turing Way_ our Community Handbook, as well as share broader recommendations that go beyond our current practices in the Guide for Accessibility. Each resource (our Accessibility Policy - this document, Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines, and our Accessibility Guide) play a different yet overlapping role in enabling, documenting, and sharing our evolving language around accessible and inclusive collaboration.

This policy is a work in progress, as are the practices that we employ as a community. Much like how _The Turing Way_ itself is always being written and rewritten, our accessibility policies and practices are constantly being updated as broader awareness grows and changes in technology are made.

## 1.1 Core Principles

> These core principles are at the heart of our accessibility policy, and they extend beyond the web accessibility of our open access guides (see 2.1) to the broader practices that that we use as a community on collective platforms (see 2.2) and while hosting events (see 2.3).

Author: ```suggestion
These core principles are at the heart of our accessibility policy, and they extend beyond the web accessibility of our open access guides (see [2.1](#2-1-community-platform-accessibility)) to the broader practices that that we use as a community on collective platforms (see [2.2](#2-2-community-platform-accessibility)) and while hosting events (see [2.3](#2-3-community-platform-accessibility)).
```

Author: Good point! I'm editing the suggestions here: https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/ttw-accessibility-policy, thanks @PatriLoto!

- Setting and embodying standards for writing and contribution that understand the way in which language may exclude as well as include people in data science, research, and other collaborative projects

### 2.3 Community Event Accessibility

As a community, we frequently organise events for a variety of purposes: for coworking, trainings, workshops, panels, conference talks, and more.

In our Community Handbook we describe these practices more specifically and in more detail.
As a baseline however, we are committed to enabling accessibility through:

- Supplying and recording transcripts for audio and closed captioning of video content
- Enabling wide access to our program context across a variety of platforms
- Uploading slides and/or presentation materials on Zenodo or other platforms to enable referencing

### 3.1 How we work with Access-related Feedback

Gathering access-related feedback is integral for ensuring that we can remain accessible as a community. We would like to offer a a few ways of sharing feedback with us, and are currently working to develop the following initiatives:

> 1. **Feedback form**: Please submit access related through [this form](https://forms.gle/Ngr2eUtQmf7aEeao6). All of the information in this form is processed anonymously, with the option of submitting contact information by choice. 

Reviewer 2: I update the embedded link:”... [this form](https://forms.gle/Ngr2eUtQmf7aEeao6) .”

Reviewer: I like the idea of specifying the two pints about limiting bandwidth use. Selfishly I like that less reliance on video makes things more accessible for screen reader users :) 

I'm not sure if all these specifics, including the details about contrast ratio, should be in the policy or should be with the moe technical content that we plan on developing about web and event accessibility.  Maybe we dhould have a chat about how much detail should be in the plicy and how it should link to more detailed references.

Author: This sounds like something that would be better suited for our documentation - definitely important to flag though!

2. **Drop-in sessions**: Throughout the calendar year, we would like to facilitate drop-in session to receive feedback about access related different parts of project. These may take place at our [Collaboration Cafe](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html) or may be hosted separately. 

> 3. **Email the Research Community Manager or project team directly directly**: You can always email the Research Community Manager directly at asteele@turing.ac.uk with direct feedback. Alternatively, you can also 

Author: ```suggestion
3. **Email the Research Community Manager or project team directly directly**: You can always email the Research Community Manager directly at asteele@turing.ac.uk with direct feedback. Alternatively, you can also also reach out to them on other community platforms such as Slack.
```

## Acknowledging Third-Party Platforms

We recognise that our project relies on a number of third party platforms, and that all of these platforms may not be accessible by default. In future iterations of this policy and guidelines, we aim to employ community audits to understand and review the use of these platforms and their commitment and process for accessibility. 

## Acknowledgements

This Accessibility Policy was created by The Turing Way.

In developing this policy, we have referred to numerous resources who have developed similar materials. 

Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.

> We also refer to the resources and process of Silvia Canelon's ["Accessibility Commitment"](https://silviacanelon.com/accessibility), and have reviewed a number of Accessibility and Access-related policies in the drafting of this document. This includes the [Open Accessibility Policy project](https://github.com/ascott1/accessibility-policy), the [Wigan Accessibility Statement](https://www.wigan.gov.uk/SitePages/Accessibility-statement.aspx), and the [gov.uk guidance](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/sample-accessibility-statement). 

Author: Thank you @PatriLoto - @LizHareDogs has added this link to the draft of the policy

# Accessibility Policy of The Turing Way Community

> Within _The Turing Way_ community, we define accessibility practices as a set of community-wide, behavioral, social, and technical decisions that can be taken to ensure that all are welcome and are able to enter and participate in research, data-driven processes, communities and events despite any barriers for access.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Within _The Turing Way_ community, we define accessibility practices as a set of community-wide, behavioural, social, and technical decisions that can be taken to ensure that all are welcome and are able to enter and participate in research, data-driven processes, communities and events despite any barriers for access.
```

While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to everyone, with specific attention given to ensuring proper access for groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation. Barriers may be anything related to, including, and extending beyond the following: 
- Age
- Disability
- Ethnicity and race
- Family
- Language (written and/or spoken)
- Geography
- Nationality
- Religion, faith and belief
- Sex and gender
- Sexual orientation
- Socioeconomic status
- Technical or disciplinary background

> - Mental health diagnoses 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Mental health
```

> - Low bandwidth internet access or unstable connectivity (i.e. connection via mobile)

Author: Suggestion for revising the last two points
```suggestion
- Digital barriers (such as connectivity, computational capacity, and design)
```

- Using devices with limited computational resources or capacity

We recognise the complex and interlinking ways in which intersectionality affects identity, and thereby, access or inclusion within any community project like _The Turing Way_. So in this sense, our accessibility practices may overlap with practices that enable inclusion more broadly within any community.

In developing this policy, we aim to draw from the [access-centered framework](https://accesscenteredmovement.com/what-access-centered-means/) in describing access as a constant process that changes in each space with each individual. This document is a part of a broader collection of documentation across accessibility, listed below:
- [Accessibility policy](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ACCESSIBILITY.md): Our vision and guiding principles for how we practice accessibility.
- [Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/accessibility): Practical advice to build accessibility into your contributions and activity within the community

> - Accessibility Guide: A broader discussion of accessibility and access-related practices that extend beyond The Turing Way

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Accessibility Guide: A broader discussion of accessibility and access-related practices that extend beyond The Turing Way.
```

> - Accessibility Guide: A broader discussion of accessibility and access-related practices that extend beyond The Turing Way

Author: We don't currently have a link for this one!

Each resource (our Accessibility Policy - this document, Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines, and our Accessibility Guide) play a different yet overlapping role in enabling, documenting, and sharing our evolving language around accessible and inclusive collaboration.

> This policy is a work in progress, as are the practices that we employ as a community. Much like how _The Turing Way_ itself is always being written and rewritten, our accessibility policies and practices are constantly being updated as broader awareness grows and changes in technology are made.

Author: ```suggestion
This policy is a work in progress, as are the practices that we employ as a community. Much like how _The Turing Way_ is always being written and rewritten, our accessibility policies and practices are constantly being updated as broader awareness grows and changes in technology are made.
```
@Preshh0 - I think this addresses your grammatical catch - thank you so much!

## 1.1 Core Principles

> These core principles are at the heart of our accessibility policy, and they extend beyond the web accessibility of our open access guides to the broader practices that we use as a community, expanded upon in Section 2.0.

Reviewer 4: Suggested rephrasing:

'...to our broader practices as a community, expanded upon in Section 2.0'

This means that questions of access are tied to how people read the guides as well as their ability to participate in the project and the community. Participation in _The Turing Way_ itself can be defined broadly, but doing so often requires navigating a number of different platforms. In all contexts, we aim to facilitate access in a broad sense through:

> 1. **Removing barriers**: We actively advocate for and employ tactics that seek to remove barriers for any current or future participants in our community. This may include people who historically have been limited or structurally excluded from participating through educational, geographical, linguistic, or technical barriers.

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Removing barriers**: We actively advocate for and employ tactics that seek to remove barriers for any current or future participants in our community. This may include people who have historically been limited or structurally excluded from participating due to any of the barriers listed above.
```

> 2. **Sharing openly**: We aim to draft, write, review, and edit our open access guides using open source practices. We do this in order to enable people from a broad range of backgrounds to get involved in the project.

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Sharing openly**: We aim to draft, write, review, and edit our open access guides using open practices documented in our [guides](https://book.the-turing-way.org/reproducible-research/open). We do this in order to enable people from a broad range of backgrounds to get involved in the project.
```

3. **Supporting inclusive participation**: We acknowledge that openness alone does not make a project accessible in a broad sense, and we are committed to maintaining a socio-technical infrastructure that enables inclusive participation more broadly. This includes hosting spaces for contribution, documenting our practices, and actively gathering feedback.

The practices and policies listed here relate to these three operating principles, which shape how we work within the community to enable access on the web, on our community platforms, and while planning events.

### 2.0 Community Accessibility Practices

> As an open source community that relies on projects and platforms for our underlying infrastructure, we acknowledge that _The Turing Way_ is limited in what standalone access-centered support we can offer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As an open source community that relies on projects and platforms for our underlying infrastructure, we acknowledge that _The Turing Way_ is limited in what standalone access-centred support we can offer.
```

With this being said, we are committed to ensuring greater access to our guides, events, and community platforms through a variety of ways. 

> 1. **Ensuring web accessibility for our open access resources**:  Our project is built with [JupyterBook](https://jupyter-accessibility.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) on the [Github](https://accessibility.github.com/) platform, which have initiatives that address their compliance with [W3C WAI's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/). As a community documentation project, we aim to use and employ appropriate and relevant [alt text (also known as 'alternative text'](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/accessibility/alt-text) for all of our images, charts, and data visualisations.
> 
> 2. **Enabling accessibility of our shared community platforms**: Our community is dedicated to enabling access across the various platforms we communicate on, which extends not only to the accessibility practices mentioned above, but also to the language we employ to ensure a broad audience. Our [slack welcome guide](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/communication-channels/slack-welcome-guide.html) delineates best practices we use on the platform.
> 
> 3. **Implementing accessible practices for community events**: As a community, we frequently organise events for a variety of purposes: for coworking, trainings, workshops, panels, conference talks, and more. We are committed to supplying and recording audio transcripts and closed captioning, uploading slides and/or presentation materials, and enabling broad access to our program content [as described in our community handbook](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/accessibility/event-organising).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. **Ensuring web accessibility for our open access resources**:  Our project is built with [JupyterBook](https://jupyter-accessibility.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) on the [Github](https://accessibility.github.com/) platform, which have initiatives that address their compliance with [W3C WAI's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/). As a community documentation project, we aim to use and employ appropriate and relevant [alt text (also known as 'alternative text'](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/accessibility/alt-text) for all of our images, charts, and data visualisations.
2. **Enabling accessibility of our shared community platforms**: Our community is dedicated to enabling access across the various platforms we communicate on, which extends not only to the accessibility practices mentioned above, but also to the language we employ to ensure a broad audience. Our [slack welcome guide](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/communication-channels/slack-welcome-guide.html) delineates best practices we use on the platform.
3. **Implementing accessible practices for community events**: As a community, we frequently organise events for a variety of purposes: for coworking, trainings, workshops, panels, conference talks, and more. We are committed to supplying and recording audio transcripts and closed captioning, uploading slides and/or presentation materials, and enabling broad access to our program content [as described in our community handbook](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/accessibility/event-organising).
```

With the linebreaks between each item this would render as three lists rather than a single list.

> 3. **Implementing accessible practices for community events**: As a community, we frequently organise events for a variety of purposes: for coworking, trainings, workshops, panels, conference talks, and more. We are committed to supplying and recording audio transcripts and closed captioning, uploading slides and/or presentation materials, and enabling broad access to our program content [as described in our community handbook](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/accessibility/event-organising).

Reviewer 4: Maybe we can also include a line to reflect our practices to bridge digital access barriers by providing 'widening participation' funds to upgrade internet/rent office space/and purchase equipment to support their participation to events/workshops (e.g. BookDash)

1. **Feedback form**: Please submit access related comments to our [accessibility feedback form](https://forms.gle/Ngr2eUtQmf7aEeao6). All of the information in this form is processed anonymously, with the option of submitting contact information by choice. 
2. **Drop-in sessions**: Throughout the calendar year, we would like to facilitate drop-in session to receive feedback about access related different parts of project. These may take place at our [Collaboration Cafe](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html) or may be hosted separately. 
3. **Email the Research Community Manager or project team directly directly**: You can always email the Research Community Manager directly at asteele@turing.ac.uk with direct feedback. Alternatively, you can also reach out to her on Slack, or to any of the [project delivery team members](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md).

> 4. **Attend the Accessibility Working Group meeting**: The Accessibility Working Group meetings may be a place where you can deliver feedback in a small group environment. These meetings are held on Zoom on the second Monday of each month at 17:00 UK time. Please join the #Accessibility channel on slack for more information.

Author: Yes - they are currently on the calendar. Added a suggestion!

> We recognise that many feedback forms and other forms for gathering feedback can often operate as "blackboxes" that receive information without taking actionable steps to address them.

Reviewer 4: Suggested rephrasing:

We recognise that oftentimes feedback and evaluation forms operate as 'blackboxes' that receive information without taking actionable steps to address them. Knowing this, we are actively working to develop processes that enable us to implement feedback and to report transparently. These may include:

Author: Love this wording - thanks a lot @LelleDi !

> Knowing this, we are working to develop processes that enable us to action and report transparently on feedback given through these channels. This may include:
> - Reporting within the Accessibility Working Group in order to discuss possible actions that can be taken to address feedback. Currently, this process is under development.
> - Liasing with appropriate groups within _The Turing Way_ project (i.e. the Infrastructure Working Group) in order to create or resource technical changes that may be needed. Information about these working groups can be found on the [subpage of the Afterword](https://book.the-turing-way.org/afterword/subprojects)
> - Escalating feedback to the project co-leads, funders, and others at the constitutional level of the project as needed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Knowing this, we are working to develop processes that enable us to action and report transparently on feedback given through these channels. This may include:

- Reporting within the Accessibility Working Group in order to discuss possible actions that can be taken to address feedback.
  Currently, this process is under development.
- Liasing with appropriate groups within _The Turing Way_ project (for example, the Infrastructure Working Group) in order to create or resource technical changes that may be needed.
  Information about these working groups can be found in {ref}`subprojects`.
- Escalating feedback to the project co-leads, funders, and others at the constitutional level of the project as needed.
```

I think you would want _e.g._ instead of _i.e._, but I've changed it to "for example" to avoid Latin.

Author: Perfect, thanks for the internal citation as well @JimMadge

## Confidentiality

By default, all reports will be kept confidential. If submitted through a non-anonymised option, when the team discusses incidents and feedback, we will anonymize details as much as we can to protect reporter privacy. In some cases we may determine that a public statement will need to be made. If that’s the case, the identities of all victims and reporters will remain confidential unless those individuals instruct us otherwise.

## Acknowledging Third-Party Platforms

We recognise that our project relies on a number of third party platforms, and that all of these platforms may not be accessible by default. In future iterations of this policy and guidelines, we aim to employ community audits to understand and review the use of these platforms and their commitment and process for accessibility. 

## Acknowledgements

This Accessibility Policy was created by The Turing Way.

In developing this policy, we have referred to numerous resources who have developed similar materials. 

> Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Jim Madge, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.

Author: ```suggestion
Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Jim Madge, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Precious Onyewuchi, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.
```

# Accessibility Policy of The Turing Way Community

Within _The Turing Way_ community, we define accessibility practices as a set of community-wide, behavioral, social, and technical decisions that can be taken to ensure that all are welcome and are able to enter and participate in research, data-driven processes, communities and events despite any barriers for access.

While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to everyone, with specific attention given to ensuring proper access for groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation. Barriers may be anything related to, including, and extending beyond the following: 
- Age
- Disability
- Ethnicity and race
- Family
- Language (written and/or spoken)
- Geography
- Nationality
- Religion, faith and belief
- Sex and gender
- Sexual orientation
- Socioeconomic status
- Technical or disciplinary background
- Mental health diagnoses 
- Low bandwidth internet access or unstable connectivity (i.e. connection via mobile)
- Using devices with limited computational resources or capacity

> - Design (ADDING AS PROXY - how do we encompass right-handed bias? Usability of websites AND of physical hardware like computer mice?)

Author: ```suggestion
```

We recognise the complex and interlinking ways in which intersectionality affects identity, and thereby, access or inclusion within any community project like _The Turing Way_. So in this sense, our accessibility practices may overlap with practices that enable inclusion more broadly within any community.

In developing this policy, we aim to draw from the [access-centered framework](https://accesscenteredmovement.com/what-access-centered-means/) in describing access as a constant process that changes in each space with each individual. This document is a part of a broader collection of documentation across accessibility, listed below:

> - Accessibility policy: Our vision and guiding principles for how we practice accessibility.

Reviewer 6: Can we link these? Whichever is currently formed and available.

We can link the rest later.

Author: Great call - I'll add those edits in now.

> - Accessibility policy: Our vision and guiding principles for how we practice accessibility.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Accessibility policy](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ACCESSIBILITY.md): Our vision and guiding principles for how we practice accessibility.
```

- Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines: Practical advice to build accessibility into your contributions and activity within the community
- Accessibility Guide: A broader discussion of accessibility and access-related practices that extend beyond The Turing Way

Each resource (our Accessibility Policy - this document, Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines, and our Accessibility Guide) play a different yet overlapping role in enabling, documenting, and sharing our evolving language around accessible and inclusive collaboration.

> This policy is a work in progress, as are the practices that we employ as a community. Much like how _The Turing Way_ itself is always being written and rewritten, our accessibility policies and practices are constantly being updated as broader awareness grows and changes in technology are made.

Reviewer 6: "Much like how _The Turing Way_ itself"

A "the" before "_The Turing Way_".

## 1.1 Core Principles

These core principles are at the heart of our accessibility policy, and they extend beyond the web accessibility of our open access guides to the broader practices that we use as a community, expanded upon in Section 2.0.

This means that questions of access are tied to how people read the guides as well as their ability to participate in the project and the community. Participation in _The Turing Way_ itself can be defined broadly, but doing so often requires navigating a number of different platforms. In all contexts, we aim to facilitate access in a broad sense through:

> 1. **Removing barriers**: We actively advocate for and employ tactics that seek to remove barriers for any current or future participants in our community. This may include people who historically have been limited or structurally excluded from participating through educational, geographical, linguistic, or technical barriers.

Reviewer 6: Can we add socioeconomic and health barriers?

Author: Do you think we should revise this sentence to "This may include people who have historically been limited or structurally excluded from participating due to any of the barriers listed above"? Maybe that might be a way of summarise these points without repeated everything from above (or unconsciously excluding any points)?

Author: Great, I'll make that change, thank you @Preshh0 !

> 2. **Sharing openly**: We aim to draft, write, review, and edit our open access guides using open source practices. We do this in order to enable people from a broad range of backgrounds to get involved in the project.

Reviewer 6: Can we provide a template of some of the open source practices we might be following?

This is just to enable readers have an idea of the guidelines we might be following, as not everyone might know what these open source "practices" are.

We recognise the complex and interlinking ways in which intersectionality affects identity, and thereby, access or inclusion within any community project like _The Turing Way_. So in this sense, our accessibility practices may overlap with practices that enable inclusion more broadly within any community.

In developing this policy, we aim to draw from the [access-centered framework](https://accesscenteredmovement.com/what-access-centered-means/) in describing access as a constant process that changes in each space with each individual. This document is a part of a broader collection of documentation across accessibility, listed below:
- [Accessibility policy](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ACCESSIBILITY.md): Our vision and guiding principles for how we practice accessibility.
- [Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/accessibility): Practical advice to build accessibility into your contributions and activity within the community.
- Accessibility Guide: A broader discussion of accessibility and access-related practices that extend beyond The Turing Way.

> Each resource (this Accessibility Policy, Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines, and our Accessibility Guide) play a different yet overlapping role in enabling, documenting, and sharing our evolving language around accessible and inclusive collaboration.

Author: ```suggestion
Each resource (this Accessibility Policy, Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines, and our Accessibility Guide) plays a different yet overlapping role in enabling, documenting, and sharing our evolving language around accessible and inclusive collaboration.
```

> Each resource (our Accessibility Policy - this document, Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines, and our Accessibility Guide) play a different yet overlapping role in enabling, documenting, and sharing our evolving language around accessible and inclusive collaboration.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Each resource (this Accessibility Policy, Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines, and our Accessibility Guide) play a different yet overlapping role in enabling, documenting, and sharing our evolving language around accessible and inclusive collaboration.
```

This policy is a work in progress, as are the practices that we employ as a community. Much like how _The Turing Way_ is always being written and rewritten, our accessibility policies and practices are constantly being updated as broader awareness grows and changes in technology are made.

## 1.1 Core Principles

> These core principles are at the heart of our accessibility policy, and they extend beyond the web accessibility of our open access guides to the broader practices that we use as a community, expanded upon in Section 2.0.

Author: ```suggestion
These core principles are at the heart of our accessibility policy, and they extend beyond the web accessibility of our open access guides to our broader practices as a community, expanded upon in Section 2.0.
```

3. **Implementing accessible practices for community events**: As a community, we frequently organise events for a variety of purposes: for coworking, training, workshops, panels, conference talks, and more.
  We are committed to supplying and recording audio transcripts and closed captioning, uploading slides and/or presentation materials, and enabling broad access to our program content [as described in our community handbook](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/accessibility/event-organising).

### 3.0 How we work with Access-related Feedback

Gathering access-related feedback is integral for ensuring that we can remain accessible as a community. We would like to offer a a few ways of sharing feedback with us, and are currently working to develop the following initiatives:

> 1. **Feedback form**: Please submit access related comments to our [accessibility feedback form](https://forms.gle/Ngr2eUtQmf7aEeao6). All of the information in this form is processed anonymously, with the option of submitting contact information by choice. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Feedback form**: Please submit access related comments to our [accessibility feedback form](https://forms.gle/Ngr2eUtQmf7aEeao6).
All of the information in this form is processed anonymously, with the option of submitting contact information by choice. 
```

1. **Feedback form**: Please submit access related comments to our [accessibility feedback form](https://forms.gle/Ngr2eUtQmf7aEeao6). All of the information in this form is processed anonymously, with the option of submitting contact information by choice. 
2. **Drop-in sessions**: Throughout the calendar year, we would like to facilitate drop-in session to receive feedback about access related different parts of project. These may take place at our [Collaboration Cafe](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html) or may be hosted separately. 
3. **Email the Research Community Manager or project team directly directly**: You can always email the Research Community Manager directly at asteele@turing.ac.uk with direct feedback. Alternatively, you can also reach out to her on Slack, or to any of the [project delivery team members](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md).

> 4. **Attend the Accessibility Working Group meeting**: The Accessibility Working Group meetings may be a place where you can deliver feedback in a small group environment. These meetings are held on Zoom on the second Monday of each month at 17:00 UK time. Please join the #Accessibility channel on slack for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
4. **Attend the Accessibility Working Group meeting**: The Accessibility Working Group meetings may be a place where you can deliver feedback in a small group environment. As of December 2024, these meetings are held on Zoom on the second Monday of each month at 17:00 UK time. Please [subscribe to the community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/1/r?cid=dGhldHVyaW5nd2F5QGdtYWlsLmNvbQ) or [download the calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/theturingway%40gmail.com/public/basic.ics) to stay up to date with meeting times. Please join the #Accessibility channel on slack for more information.
```

  Information about these working groups can be found in {ref}`subprojects`.
- Escalating feedback to the project co-leads, funders, and others at the constitutional level of the project as needed.

## Confidentiality

By default, all reports will be kept confidential. If submitted through a non-anonymised option, when the team discusses incidents and feedback, we will anonymise details as much as we can to protect reporter privacy. In some cases we may determine that a public statement will need to be made. If that’s the case, the identities of all victims and reporters will remain confidential unless those individuals instruct us otherwise.

## Acknowledging Third-Party Platforms

We recognise that our project relies on a number of third party platforms, and that all of these platforms may not be accessible by default. In future iterations of this policy and guidelines, we aim to employ community audits to understand and review the use of these platforms and their commitment and process for accessibility. 

## Acknowledgements

This Accessibility Policy was created by _The Turing Way_.

> In developing this policy, we have referred to numerous resources who have developed similar materials. 

Author: ```suggestion
In developing this policy, we have referred to numerous people who and resources that have developed similar materials. 
```

> Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Arielle Bennett, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Jim Madge, Léllé Demertzi, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Precious Onyewuchi, Sara Villa, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.

Author: ```suggestion
Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Arielle Bennett, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Jim Madge, Léllé Demertzi, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Precious Onyewuchi, Richard Acton, Sara Villa, Saranjeet Kaur, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.
```

> Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Arielle Bennett, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Jim Madge, Léllé Demertzi, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Precious Onyewuchi, Richard Acton, Sara Villa, Saranjeet Kaur, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.

Author: ```suggestion
Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Arielle Bennett, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Harriet Sands, Jesica Formoso, Jim Madge, Léllé Demertzi, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Precious Onyewuchi, Richard Acton, Sara Villa, Saranjeet Kaur, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.
```

# Accessibility Policy of The Turing Way Community

Within _The Turing Way_ community, we define accessibility practices as a set of community-wide, behavioural, social, and technical decisions that can be taken to ensure that all are welcome and are able to enter and participate in research, data-driven processes, communities and events despite any barriers for access.

While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to everyone, with specific attention given to ensuring proper access for groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation. Barriers may be anything related to, including, and extending beyond the following: 
- Age
- Disability
- Ethnicity and race
- Family
- Language (written and/or spoken)
- Geography
- Nationality
- Religion, faith and belief
- Sex and gender
- Sexual orientation
- Socioeconomic status
- Technical or disciplinary background
- Mental health
- Digital barriers (such as connectivity, computational capacity, and design)

> - Using devices with limited computational resources or capacity

Author: ```suggestion
```

These may take place at our [Collaboration Cafe](https://book.the-turing-way.org/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html) or may be hosted separately. 
3. **Email the Research Community Manager or project team directly directly**: You can always email the Research Community Manager directly at asteele@turing.ac.uk with direct feedback. Alternatively, you can also reach out to her on Slack, or to any of the [project delivery team members](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ways_of_working.md).
4. **Attend the Accessibility Working Group meeting**: The Accessibility Working Group meetings may be a place where you can deliver feedback in a small group environment. As of December 2024, these meetings are held on Zoom on the second Monday of each month at 17:00 UK time. Please [subscribe to the community calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/1/r?cid=dGhldHVyaW5nd2F5QGdtYWlsLmNvbQ) or [download the calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/theturingway%40gmail.com/public/basic.ics) to stay up to date with meeting times. Please join the #Accessibility channel on slack for more information.

> We recognise that oftentimes feedback and evaluation forms operate as 'blackboxes' that receive information without taking actionable steps to address them. Knowing this, we are actively working to develop processes that enable us to implement feedback and to report transparently. These may include: 

Author: ```suggestion
We recognise that oftentimes feedback and evaluation forms operate as 'blackboxes' that receive information without taking actionable steps to address them. 
Knowing this, we are actively working to develop processes that enable us to implement feedback and to report transparently. These may include: 
```

> Knowing this, we are working to develop processes that enable us to action and report transparently on feedback given through these channels. This may include:

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Reporting within the Accessibility Working Group in order to discuss possible actions that can be taken to address feedback.
  Currently, this process is under development.

> - Liasing with appropriate groups within _The Turing Way_ project (for example, the Infrastructure Working Group) in order to create or resource technical changes that may be needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Liaising with appropriate groups within _The Turing Way_ project (for example, the Infrastructure Working Group) in order to create or resource technical changes that may be needed.
```

  Information about these working groups can be found in {ref}`subprojects`.
- Escalating feedback to the project co-leads, funders, and others at the constitutional level of the project as needed.

## Confidentiality

By default, all reports will be kept confidential. If submitted through a non-anonymised option, when the team discusses incidents and feedback, we will anonymize details as much as we can to protect reporter privacy. In some cases we may determine that a public statement will need to be made. If that’s the case, the identities of all victims and reporters will remain confidential unless those individuals instruct us otherwise.

## Acknowledging Third-Party Platforms

We recognise that our project relies on a number of third party platforms, and that all of these platforms may not be accessible by default. In future iterations of this policy and guidelines, we aim to employ community audits to understand and review the use of these platforms and their commitment and process for accessibility. 

## Acknowledgements

> This Accessibility Policy was created by The Turing Way.

Author: ```suggestion
This Accessibility Policy was created by _The Turing Way_.
```

In developing this policy, we have referred to numerous resources who have developed similar materials. 

> Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Jim Madge, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Precious Onyewuchi, Sara Villa, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.

Author: ```suggestion
Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Arielle Bennett, Chi Zhang, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Jim Madge, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Precious Onyewuchi, Sara Villa, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.
```

# Accessibility Policy of The Turing Way Community

Within _The Turing Way_ community, we define accessibility practices as a set of community-wide, behavioral, social, and technical decisions that can be taken to ensure that all are welcome and are able to enter and participate in research, data-driven processes, communities and events despite any barriers for access.

> While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation. Barriers may be anything related to, including, and extending beyond the following: 

Reviewer 7: Might it be worth reiterating 'giving access to everyone' e.g.:
```suggestion
While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to everyone, with specific attention given to ensuring proper access for groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation. Barriers may be anything related to, including, and extending beyond the following: 
```

Author: Thank you for this wording - this is much more clear, @harrietrs !

> While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation. Barriers may be anything related to, including, and extending beyond the following: 
> - Age
> - Disability
> - Ethnicity and race

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While accessibility is commonly understood with respect to disability, we – meaning _The Turing Way_ community – define accessibility as giving access to groups of people that encounter different barriers for participation. Barriers may be anything related to, including, and extending beyond the following:

- Age
- Disability
- Ethnicity and race
```

Author: Closing this - as I believe we have addressed this formatting issue. We are currently doing edits on this pad, before merging back into this document for ease of editing: https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/ttw-accessibility-policy

- Family
- Language (written and/or spoken)
- Geography
- Nationality
- Religion, faith and belief
- Sex and gender
- Sexual orientation
- Socioeconomic status
- Technical or disciplinary background

We recognise the complex and interlinking ways in which intersectionality affects identity, and thereby, access or inclusion within any community project like _The Turing Way_. So in this sense, our accessibility practices may overlap with practices that enable inclusion more broadly within any community.

> In developing this policy, we aim to draw from the [access-centered framework](https://accesscenteredmovement.com/what-access-centered-means/) in describing access as a constant process that changes in each space with each individual. Therefore, while this policy outlines our commitment to access-centered practices within our community in a broad sense, we also document the specific practices we use within _The Turing Way_ our Community Handbook, as well as share broader recommendations that go beyond our current practices in the Guide for Accessibility. Each resource (our Accessibility Policy - this document, Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines, and our Accessibility Guide) play a different yet overlapping role in enabling, documenting, and sharing our evolving language around accessible and inclusive collaboration.

Reviewer 5: I find this paragraph a little hard to understand.

Maybe it would help to break down the three different documents and their purpose. Is it something like,

- Accessibility policy - Our vision and the rules
- Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines - Practical advice to build accessibility in your contributions/activity 
- Accessibility Guide - A broader discussion of accessibility, not just in _The Turing Way_

Author: This makes sense! Great tip @JimMadge - I'm working to break this down into a short list linked here: https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/ttw-accessibility-policy

> In developing this policy, we aim to draw from the [access-centered framework](https://accesscenteredmovement.com/what-access-centered-means/) in describing access as a constant process that changes in each space with each individual. This document is a part of a broader collection of documentation listed below:
- Accessibility policy: Our vision and guiding principles for how we practice accessibility.
- Community Handbook Accessibility Guidelines: Practical advice to build accessibility into your contributions and activity within the community
- Accessibility Guide: A broader discussion of accessibility and access-related practices that extend beyond The Turing Way

This policy is a work in progress, as are the practices that we employ as a community. Much like how _The Turing Way_ itself is always being written and rewritten, our accessibility policies and practices are constantly being updated as broader awareness grows and changes in technology are made.

## 1.1 Core Principles

> These core principles are at the heart of our accessibility policy, and they extend beyond the web accessibility of our open access guides (see 2.1) to the broader practices that that we use as a community on collective platforms (see 2.2) and while hosting events (see 2.3).

Reviewer 5: You can use internal references here, like

`[2.2](#2-2-community-platform-accessibility)`

Author: Thank you, @JimMadge ! I've suggested edits along those lines :)

Author: Oh great - good point folks - adding the references to the digital version!

> This means that questions of access are tied to how people read the guides as well as their ability to participate the project and the community more broadly. Participation in _The Turing Way_ itself can be defined broadly, but doing so often requires navigating a number of different platforms. In all contexts, we aim to facilitate access in a broad sense through:

Author: ```suggestion
This means that questions of access are tied to how people read the guides as well as their ability to participate in the project and the community more broadly. Participation in _The Turing Way_ itself can be defined broadly, but doing so often requires navigating a number of different platforms. In all contexts, we aim to facilitate access in a broad sense through:
```

> This means that questions of access are tied to how people read the guides as well as their ability to participate in the project and the community more broadly. Participation in _The Turing Way_ itself can be defined broadly, but doing so often requires navigating a number of different platforms. In all contexts, we aim to facilitate access in a broad sense through:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This means that questions of access are tied to how people read the guides as well as their ability to participate in the project and the community. Participation in _The Turing Way_ itself can be defined broadly, but doing so often requires navigating a number of different platforms. In all contexts, we aim to facilitate access in a broad sense through:
```

Reviewer 7: Chose to remove a 'broad', to avoid the general sense of vagueness that repeating the word too often brings in.

> 1. **Removing barriers**: We actively advocate for and employ tactics that seek to remove barriers for any current or future participants in our community. This may include people who historically have been limited or structurely excluded from participating in through educational, geographical, linguistic, or technical barriers.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
1. **Removing barriers**: We actively advocate for and employ tactics that seek to remove barriers for any current or future participants in our community. This may include people who historically have been limited or structurally excluded from participating through educational, geographical, linguistic, or technical barriers.
```

> 2. **Sharing openly and with openness**: We aim to draft, write, review, and edit our open access guides using open source practices, and we do this in order to enable people from a broad range of backgrounds to get involved in the project.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. **Sharing openly and with openness**: We aim to draft, write, review, and edit our open access guides using open source practices. We do this in order to enable people from a broad range of backgrounds to get involved in the project.
```

> 3. **Supporting inclusive participation**: We acknowledge that openness alone does not make a project accessible in a broad sense, and we are committed to maintaing a socio-technical infrastructure that enables inclusive participation more broadly. This includes hosting spaces for contribution, documenting our practices, and actively gathering feedback.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
3. **Supporting inclusive participation**: We acknowledge that openness alone does not make a project accessible in a broad sense, and we are committed to maintaining a socio-technical infrastructure that enables inclusive participation more broadly. This includes hosting spaces for contribution, documenting our practices, and actively gathering feedback.
```

The practices and policies listed here relate to these three operating principles, which shape how we work within the community to enable access on the web, on our community platforms, and while planning events.

### 2.1 Web Accessibility

_The Turing Way_ is committed to ensuring the web accessibility of our guides.

> As an open source community that relies on  projects and platforms for our underlying infrastructure, we acknowledge that we are limited in what standalone access-centered support we can offer. Our project is built with JupyterBook and using the Github platform. Both of these platforms have policies that address how they address the [W3C WAI's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/). You can read more about the JupyterBook's work around accessibility [here](https://astrobites.org/2023/06/10/notebooks-for-all/) and about Github's work [here](https://accessibility.github.com/).

Author: ```suggestion
As an open source community that relies on  projects and platforms for our underlying infrastructure, we acknowledge that we are limited in what standalone access-centered support we can offer. Our project is built with JupyterBook and using the Github platform. Both of these platforms have policies that address how they address the [W3C WAI's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/). You can read more about the the experience of a researcher at Accessible Notebooks Hackathon in ["Notebooks For All: Making Jupyter Notebooks More Accessible"](https://astrobites.org/2023/06/10/notebooks-for-all/) and about Github's work in the [Github Accessibility Report](https://accessibility.github.com/).
```

> As a community however, we are committed to ensuring broader accessibility of our resources through using this infrastructure through:
> - Choosing sufficient color contrast in our hand-drawn images that make our images accessible in the context of color-blindness
> - Using and employing appropriate and relevant alt text (also known as 'alternative text') for all of our images, charts, and data visualisations (an ongoing project with in the community)
> - Navigation without the need for a mouse or track pad during either the reading process on JupyterBook and/or contributing process on Github

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As a community, we are further committed to ensuring broader accessibility of our resources through using this infrastructure through:

- Choosing sufficient color contrast in our hand-drawn images that make our images accessible in the context of color-blindness
- Using and employing appropriate and relevant alt text (also known as 'alternative text') for all of our images, charts, and data visualisations (an ongoing project with in the community)
- Navigation without the need for a mouse or track pad during either the reading process on JupyterBook and/or contributing process on Github
```

Space before list and I think that might not be a "however".

### 2.2 Community Platform Accessibility

_The Turing Way_ is committed to ensuring our accessibility as a community on all the platforms we use.

> In our Community Handbook, we describe these practices more specifically and in more detail. But as a baseline, our community is dedicated to enabling access across the various platforms we use through:

Reviewer 7: Can we add a link through to the accessibility comms platform page? As this seems to be a summary of that content.

Author: Yes - added a link and description here to the Community Handbook.

> - Providing diverse opportunities and platforms for people to contribute to _The Turing Way_ despite barriers or difficults associated with one platform or another

Author: ```suggestion
- Providing diverse opportunities and platforms for people to contribute to _The Turing Way_ despite barriers or difficulties associated with one platform or another
```

> In our Community Handbook, we describe these practices more specifically and in more detail. But as a baseline, our community is dedicated to enabling access across the various platforms we use through:

Author: ```suggestion
In our [Community Handbook](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/accessibility), we aim to describe these practices more specifically and in more detail. But as a baseline, our community is dedicated to enabling access across the various platforms we use through:
```

> - Setting and embodying standards for writing and contribution that understand the way in which language may exclude as well as include people in the process

Author: ```suggestion
- Setting and embodying standards for writing and contribution that understand the way in which language may exclude as well as include people in data science, research, and other collaborative processes
```

> In our Community Handbook, we describe these practices more specifically and in more detail. But as a baseline, our community is dedicated to enabling access across the various platforms we use through:
> - Providing diverse opportunities and platforms for people to contribute to _The Turing Way_ despite barriers or difficulties associated with one platform or another
> - Setting and embodying standards for writing and contribution that understand the way in which language may exclude as well as include people in data science, research, and other collaborative projects

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In our Community Handbook we describe these practices more specifically and in more detail.
As a baseline, our community is dedicated to enabling access across the various platforms we use through:

- Providing diverse opportunities and platforms for people to contribute to _The Turing Way_ despite barriers or difficulties associated with one platform or another
- Setting and embodying standards for writing and contribution that understand the way in which language may exclude as well as include people in data science, research, and other collaborative projects
```

### 2.3 Community Event Accessibility

As a community, we frequently organise events for a variety of purposes: for coworking, trainings, workshops, panels, conference talks, and more.

> In our Community Handbook, we describe these practices more specifically and in more detail. As a baseline however, we are committed to enabling accessibility through:
> - Supplying and recording transcripts for audio and closed captioning of video content
> - Enabling wide access to our program context across a variety of platforms
> - Uploading slides and/or presentation materials on Zenodo or other platforms to enable referencing

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In our Community Handbook we describe these practices more specifically and in more detail.
As a baseline however, we are committed to enabling accessibility through:

- Supplying and recording transcripts for audio and closed captioning of video content
- Enabling wide access to our program context across a variety of platforms
- Uploading slides and/or presentation materials on Zenodo or other platforms to enable referencing
```

Author: Thank you for the formatting suggest @JimMadge!

### 3.1 How we work with Access-related Feedback

Gathering access-related feedback is integral for ensuring that we can remain accessible as a community. We would like to offer a a few ways of sharing feedback with us, and are currently working to develop the following initiatives:

> 1. **Feedback form**: Please submit access related through [this form](https://forms.gle/Ngr2eUtQmf7aEeao6). All of the information in this form is done so anonymously, with the option of submitting contact information. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Feedback form**: Please submit access related through [this form](https://forms.gle/Ngr2eUtQmf7aEeao6). All of the information in this form is processed anonymously, with the option of submitting contact information by choice. 
```

> 2. **Drop-in sessions**: Throughout the calendar year, we would like to facilitate drop-in session to receive feedback aabuout access related different parts of project. These may take place at our Collaboration Cafe or may be hosted separately. 

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Drop-in sessions**: Throughout the calendar year, we would like to facilitate drop-in session to receive feedback about access related different parts of project. These may take place at our Collaboration Cafe or may be hosted separately. 
```

> 2. **Drop-in sessions**: Throughout the calendar year, we would like to facilitate drop-in session to receive feedback about access related different parts of project. These may take place at our Collaboration Cafe or may be hosted separately. 

Reviewer 7: Can we add a link to collaboration cafe details for those who are not familiar with them?

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Drop-in sessions**: Throughout the calendar year, we would like to facilitate drop-in session to receive feedback about access related different parts of project. These may take place at our [Collaboration Cafe](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html) or may be hosted separately. 
```

> 3. **Email the Research Community Manager or project team directly directly**: You can always email the Research Community Manager directly at asteele@turing.ac.uk with direct feedback. Alternatively, you can also 

Reviewer 5: also what 😄?

Author: Great catch!

Author: Closing this as the edits have been made!

4. **Attend the Accessibility Working Group meeting**: The Accessibility Working Group meetings may be a place where you can deliver feedback in a small group environment. Please join the #Accessibility channel on slack for more information.

> We recognise that many feedback forms and other forms for gathering feedback can often operate as "blackboxes" that receieve information without taking actionable steps to address them.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
We recognise that many feedback forms and other forms for gathering feedback can often operate as "blackboxes" that receive information without taking actionable steps to address them.
```

Knowing this, we are working to develop processes that enable us to action and report transparently on feedback given through these channels. This may include:

> - Reporting within the Accessibility Working Group in order to discuss possible actions that can be taken to address feedback

Reviewer 7: are there links to these groups we can add? (I'm nervous of adding links given the accessibility points re embedded links so please ignore this and other comments if that advice applies)

Author: Great point, @harrietrs, we do have a broader page with some information: https://book.the-turing-way.org/afterword/subprojects.

Reviewer: I have changed the link to markdown format so the description of the URL is what is read aloud.

Author: Thank you @PatriLoto and @LizHareDogs 🙏

> - Liasoning with appropriate groups within The Turing Way project (i.e. the Infrastructure Working Group) in order to create or resource technical changes that may be needed

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Liasing with appropriate groups within The Turing Way project (i.e. the Infrastructure Working Group) in order to create or resource technical changes that may be needed
```

> Knowing this, we are working to develop processes that enable us to action and report transparently on feedback given through these channels. This may include:
> - Reporting within the Accessibility Working Group in order to discuss possible actions that can be taken to address feedback
> - Liasoning with appropriate groups within The Turing Way project (i.e. the Infrastructure Working Group) in order to create or resource technical changes that may be needed
> - Escalating feedback to the project co-leads, funders, and others at the constitutional level of the project as needed

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Knowing this, we are working to develop processes that enable us to action and report transparently on feedback given through these channels. This may include:

- Reporting within the Accessibility Working Group in order to discuss possible actions that can be taken to address feedback
- Liaising with appropriate groups within The Turing Way project (i.e. the Infrastructure Working Group) in order to create or resource technical changes that may be needed
- Escalating feedback to the project co-leads, funders, and others at the constitutional level of the project as needed
```

Author: Was this change made? I had thought so - but not seeing it directly on the page @JimMadge

Reviewer 5: No, but this one is outdated. I've opened another suggestion.

## Confidentiality

By default, all reports will be kept confidential. If submitted through a non-anonymised option, when the team discusses incidents and feedback, we will anonymize details as much as we can to protect reporter privacy. In some cases we may determine that a public statement will need to be made. If that’s the case, the identities of all victims and reporters will remain confidential unless those individuals instruct us otherwise.

> ## Acknowleding Third-Party Platforms

Author: ```suggestion
## Acknowledging Third-Party Platforms
```

We recognise that our project relies on a number of third party platforms, and that all of these platforms may not be accessible by default. In future iterations of this policy and guidelines, we aim to employ community audits to understand and review the use of these platforms and their commitment and process for accessibility. 

## Acknowledgements

> This Accessibility Policy was created by The Turing Way.

Author: Maybe need to add some more resources here.

In developing this policy, we have referred to numerous resources who have developed similar materials. 

> This includes resources that were developed internally, such as presentations by Liz Hare and by Andrea Sanchez-Tapia. 

Author: ```suggestion
Contributors to the initial document are Alexandra Araujo Alvarez, Andrea Sanchez-Tapia, Anne Lee Steele, Esther Plomp, Laurel Ascenzi, Jesica Formoso, Liz Hare, Malvika Sharan, Patricia Loto, Sophia Batchelor, and Tania Allard. Initial drafts of this policy have been made and were documented from 2022 to 2024.
```
Looking back at #2730 and gathering some names!
